= find_by_param

_find_by_param_ helps you dealing with permalinks and finding objects by our
permalink value

    class Post < ActiveRecord:Base
      make_permalink :with => :title
    end

now you can do 
  
    Post.find_by_param(...)

If you have a permalink-column _find_by_param_ saves the permalink there and
uses that otherwise it just uses the provided attribute.


== Installation

=== Via RubyGems

    % gem install find_by_param

=== Building your own

    % gem build find_by_param.gemspec
    % gem install find_by_param-VERSION.gem

=== As Rails plugin

    % script/plugin install git://github.com/bumi/find_by_param.git


== Examples

=== Configuration

    make_permalink :with => :login
    make_permalink :with => :title, :prepend_id => true
    make_permalink :with => :name, :forbidden => %w(new edit)

=== Client code

    Post.create(:title => "hey ho let's go!").to_param #=> "hey-ho-lets-go" 
              # ... to_param is the method Rails calls to create the URL values

    Post.find_by_param("hey-ho-lets-go") #=> <Post>

    Post.find_by_param("is-not-there")   #=> nil
    Post.find_by_param!("is-not-there")  #=> raises ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound


== Basic Documentation

=== Options for make_permalink

The following options may be used, when configuring the permalink generation
with +make_permalink+.

* <tt>:with</tt> (required)

  The attribute that should be used as permalink

* <tt>:field</tt>

  The name of your permalink column. make_permalink first checks if there is 
  a column. 

* <tt>:prepend_id => [true|false]</tt>

  Do you want to prepend the ID to the permalink? for URLs like:
  <tt>posts/123-my-post-title</tt> - _find_by_param_ uses the ID column to
  search.

* <tt>:param_size => [Number]</tt>
  
  Desired maximum size of the permalink, default is 50.

* <tt>:escape => [true|false]</tt>

  Do you want to escape the permalink value? (strip chars like
  <tt>öä?&</tt>) - actually you must do that

* <tt>:forbidden => [Regexp|String|Array of Strings]</tt>

  Define which values should be forbidden. This is useful when combining user
  defined values to generate permalinks in combination with restful routing.
  <b>Make sure, especially in the case of a Regexp argument, that values may
  become valid by adding or incrementing a trailing integer.</b>


=== Class methods provided by _find_by_param_

The following methods are added as public methods to all classes containing a
permalink field.

* <tt>find_by_param(id)</tt>

  Look up a value by its permalink value, returns matching instance or
  +nil+, if none is found.

* <tt>find_by_param!(id)</tt>

  Look up a value by its permalink value, returns matching instance or
  raises <tt>ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound</tt>, if none is found.


=== Issues

* Alex Sharp (http://github.com/ajsharp) pointed to an issue with STI. Better call make_permalink in every child class and not only in the parent class..
* write nice docs
* write nicer tests

Copyright (c) 2007 [Michael Bumann - Railslove.com], released under the MIT license
